so i want to um i want to
show you some of the benchmarking that
we've been doing over in um
ipld uh in ipfs land
um hold on just give me a sec i want to
just set this up all right everyone able
to see this screen
yes maybe maybe not
awesome uh cool so uh today
uh so so this is actually
a story of uh how something that you
uh start working on in protocol labs uh
in one area could turn out to be super
useful to other people
um and the person the protagonist at the
center of the story is actually not me
it is alfonso um who uh
maybe like uh i guess six months ago
uh for research work um
related to transfer speeds in bitswap
started working on this beyond bitswap
framework
which essentially became a generalized
uh
benchmarking framework for measuring
transfers of data
um of almost any kind
in almost any platform so this began as
a bit swap benchmark um later it added
graph sync later
uh it added a version that ran the
entire ipfs stack
um and then uh just a couple days ago
uh it got uh essentially um
all a whole bunch of live p2p protocols
added it has http
it has http overlimp p2p it has raw
olympia
so we now stream all kinds of um uh
we all stream all kinds of like non-ipfs
protocols in here
um and uh we in this this this
repository
um also has like mechanisms for like
generating files
um transferring real data transferring
directories
um so it's a really cool way to um
to to do these sorts of bed benchmarks
and it
you know it has uh sort of like all of
the major steps and like um and like a
traditional transfer workflow in our
system so
there's the process of adding the files
into the system which in the case of
like ipfs means
converting them to unix fs converting
them to um you know uh
to ipld uh data and then um
transferring and then serializing them
back out to flat files
um so this is a really uh it's a really
cool
uh suite of tools um i almost feel like
it's grown beyond its name
um and uh and currently i believe the
ignite team has been using it
to um to do some benchmarking in
preparation for some of their
work around f3 to make file coin uh
super fast uh when you put uh when you
transfer data into file coin
um and then uh our team more recently uh
we wanted so you know uh the data
systems team
has been um we've basically been
uh trying to take uh ipld prime which is
our brands fake and new
uh i was not brand spanking new at this
point but it's our it's our
new and super awesome new hotness uh uh
a version of ipld as opposed to the old
the old and busted libraries
um and we've been trying to get them all
throughout ipfs so that we have all the
capabilities of ipld in ipfs
um but this entails a whole bunch of
changes to our stack
um and we want to make sure that when we
ship this thing we don't break ipfs
um so um we've been using this benchmark
and what we've done
is we've set up uh essentially this
benchmark to run
a version of our current master version
of ipfs our current released version of
ipfs
and have it um you know essentially add
files transfer them to another node and
then um and then
put them back out as a regular file and
then we set up a version that runs in
um that runs uh with our branches in ipl
g prime and ipfs and these these early
versions are really just compatibility
versions we found ways to share
to shim in ipld prime without really
taking
advantage of its capabilities or
optimizing around it um
uh but we ran these benchmarks um and
we've gotten some results
um the the benchmarks are test ground
benchmarks so
like essentially if i want to run them
i'm going to
all i can i have like we've got some
compositions now
um and we have this directory called
ipld and ipfs
um we have a baseline and we have a
composition for
um the new version um one of the super
cool things about test ground
is that you can sorry if i'm going super
fast here but
um is that you can like basically build
a
a benchmark where uh with these uh
these composition files where i don't
know if you all can see this this might
not mean anything to the to the folks
who aren't uh
who don't work with testron but right
here what i'm doing in this is i am
actually replacing ipfs with a different
uh commit shell
which allows me to run the version that
is updated for ipld prime and ipfs
um and there's even this other little
thing that's like selectors thing which
allows us to
um pass in essentially a build tag to go
which is super cool i just learned how
to use it this morning
um because it allows you to use build
tags and go to like
work with different versions that have
breaking changes in their interfaces
which actually
uh we the latest thing we ship we had to
do with um uh
graphics so that's like i don't know i i
i feel like tesla well i i could sing
test grounds braces all day i feel like
it's one of the coolest products
protocol cuts is built not related to
the distributed web per se but still an
amazing product
anyway so um yeah so if i wanted to run
this
i would you know run my composition here
um and
um let's go test ground run
composition oh my god apparently i i
lose my ability to type what people are
watching
uh yeah and so like that's gonna start
um and then i uh over here i have my
test brown damon um it's actually
handling the request and starting up
uh however i was not so foolhardy as to
attempt to run a test crown uh
test while um on a zoom call up and make
you all wait
so don't worry these have all been run
already um anyway
so once we got the results um yesterday
um i put together a um an observable
um uh repos i don't know what you call
these repositories pages
um and we were able to compare some uh
benchmarks of
uh the old version and the new version
now you can see
uh what we have here is we have time to
add time to fetch and type the output
um and you can see we're not quite there
in terms of everything being the same
but for example on time to add we're
doing really well
um and uh time to
fetch in time to output we need a little
bit of work fortunately
um we did a little bit of uh looking
into
what's going on uh with uh like why
those things might be a little bit
slower um
and uh i have a hunch as to what those
are
well okay i already know but uh in any
case um uh
you can see here that this is loaded
with some initial files but um
you can upload your own results to
basically automatically update this
graph so i've gone ahead and run this
earlier
um and i have a separate run here um
which is i believe this is it oh
goodness i hope this is the right
version
let's find out
i can't remember what my last run was
called i should have called i should
have named it something
more there we are yes yeah so it turns
out
that um now we saw some unusual results
here in the fetch we're pretty sure this
is just garbage collection running
because we're
transferring a bunch of data um by the
way what we're transferring here is a
100 megabyte
uh directory it's the like xkcd archive
um that i just like got off github as
like a demo
um this is probably just garbage
collection running so we are seeing some
unusual results where
like suddenly we under we like
outperform the
normal version uh on one run but then we
underperform it on others
um i'm pretty sure this is garbage
collection related but you can see
meanwhile
our our time to output to a flat file
has gotten way better um and the
difference here is um
this actually has to do um with uh
basically there's an extra um uh
hashing of uh the blocks um
in the sort of default version of ipld
prime um so we're we're basically when
we read blocks out of the block store we
have uh
with the without this sort of like uh
extra thing without this thing we added
um we were doing an extra rehash of the
block to verify the cid which is really
wonderful
uh if you care about trusting your data
but in the case where we're loading off
our own hard drive
that we wrote previously we probably do
trust that data anyway
um so we don't need to rehash the cids
so it makes a big difference when you're
transferring big chunks of data
um so you can see that you know we made
it we we uh
got a big win here um out of a branch
that fixes that
um and yeah and it's super cool we've
like i you know i
just in um to uh we do have an actually
an outstanding problem
um in one of uh in our um
actual uh in our um
six results sorry um in our ad
time um because uh we've we've been
playing around with different uh
protobuf libraries for
um our nodes and we wanna use one that's
really compatible and really well
tuned to the spec but it looks like we
have some optimization work um to do
there
so um in any case it's kind of cool
though to be able to like run these
benchmarks and like get these immediate
you know get these really awesome like
immediate comparisons and
you know across all kinds of different
stuff um and we've run you know we wrote
the one day i hope to hook this all up
so that like
you can run it all on test run as a
service and like it'll immediately pull
up the url with your latest results
there's a few
few things still to do there but it's
still pretty usable so
anyway that's my demo yeah
cool very cool you kind of got to told
the back story a little bit but
what what motivated the thing that
alfonso was first working on i forget
what it was called
six months ago yeah yes so this was
originally i mean it was originally
designed as a repository to run research
experiments
on um uh basically
changes to bitswap right um or changes
to the general transfer stack of ipfs
um and uh and like you can see
there's actually still this rfc
directory with all these ideas for
um improving bitswap and um and you can
even
there's even some like have
implementations um and there's a way to
like
run these experiments um so it's super
cool
um but we found that like like that's
what he built and then like over the
last like
few months when i was doing ipfs work we
ended up doing a bunch of refactor work
to enable it to support almost any
transport
um in any scenario and right now we're
just doing a one-to-one transfer there
but like
you can mess with all of things you can
mess with latency you can mess with
bandwidth you can mess with
you know whether your disk store is in
memory or like
badger um you can mess with how many
transfers you're doing between
how many transfer nodes it's like it's
pretty cool like i mean i don't know
it's it's become
quite a resource for a number of teams
currently so
um yeah
yeah very cool very cool
uh i'm going to ask questions
anyone anyone
killer feeler uh
nice oh yeah and also test run in
general is fantastic i think everyone
that's
that's touched it finds it very useful
um so that's great
um yeah so our last